# Boeing union ready to strike after rejecting contract offer – KIRO 7 News Seattle
Categoría: General
Fecha: Julio - Agosto 2026
Origen: Grupo Telegram EnfadadosconAirbus (https://t.me/+MnuqJDCAAgYyMGQ0)

WATCH
63 °
WATCH
News
National
Politics
PinPoint Weather
7-Day Forecast
Hour by Hour
Ski Report
School Closings
Pet Walk Forecast
Weather 24/7 Stream
Stream Now
Live Stream
KIRO 24/7 News
Weather 24/7
KIRO 7 Live Studio (Opens in new window)
Recent Videos
Raw Video
Law & Crime
Gusto TV
KIRO 7 Investigates
Sports
Seattle Seahawks
Seattle Mariners
Seattle Kraken
Seattle Sounders
Seattle Storm
College Sports
High School Football
On Home Ice
Special Programming
Seattle Pride
Christmas in July
Seattle Seafair
Hit and Miss with Monique Ming Laven
KIRO 7 Toy Drive
Destination Discover
Healthier Together
Discover Northwest
Woodland Park Zoo (Opens in new window)
Your Voices
KIRO 7 CARES
Seattle Aquarium
Washington Grown
Seattle Waterfront
Local Jobs
Back to School
Steals and Deals
Gets Real
Live Traffic
Apps & Newsletters
KIRO 7 Apps
Newsletter Sign-ups (Opens in new window)
About Us
KIRO 7 News Team
Submit a news tip
KIRO 7 TV Schedule
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Closed Captioning
KIRO 7 FCC EEO Report (Opens in new window)
KIRO 7 Public File (Opens in new window)
Visitor Agreement
Privacy Policy
Telemundo Seattle (Opens in new window)
Telemundo Contactanos
Jobs at KIRO 7 (Opens in new window)
KIRO 7 Now
Resize: Drag to Resize Video
Local
https://www.kiro7.com/news/local/
Boeing union ready to strike after rejecting contract offer
By  
Heather Bosch, KIRO 7 News
https://www.kiro7.com/people/heather-bosch/
August 22, 2026 at 7:51 pm PDT Canada-WestJet-Strike  A WestJet Boeing 737 Max aircraft takes off from Vancouver International Airport in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Friday, July 31, 2026. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press via AP)  (Darryl Dyck/Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press v)  By  
Heather Bosch, KIRO 7 News
https://www.kiro7.com/people/heather-bosch/
August 22, 2026 at 7:51 pm PDT
Members of one of Boeing’s biggest unions have rejected a contract offer from the company and have authorized a strike if further talks fail.
These are members of Boeing’s SPEEA union, which represents 13,000 engineers and 4,000 technical workers.
The contract offer would have boosted the average pay for those who design Boeing planes by nearly 30 percent over four years. They would have received three extra days of paid leave, lower limits on mandatory overtime, and more opportunities for virtual work.
Dan Nowlin, a Boeing equipment and tool specialist, serves on the negotiating team that originally endorsed the contract. ”We - with the company - we worked very hard to come to an agreement. We believed that it was an agreement that we could take honestly before the members and get a result,” Nowlin said. 
That result turned out to be a no vote. At the same time, members voted to authorize their bargaining team to call a strike, if necessary.
The SPEEA union says members simply don’t trust Boeing management, claiming jobs are being sent out of state, decisions by engineering and technical staff are getting overruled by management, quality is taking a backseat to schedules, and that salaries aren’t keeping up with inflation and the aerospace market.
Katheryn Durke, a materials and process engineer who also serves on the bargaining team, says Boeing’s decisions are leading to staff turnover.
“In order to defy gravity and to deliver to our customers, we really need to have that top talent in place year over year. You can’t build an airplane in a year. You can certainly deliver an airplane any year. You need people who are willing to be there to learn the very specialized skills that we have,” Durke said.
Ben Nimmergut, Boeing vice president and functional chief engineer for Production Engineering, released a statement in response to the union vote. “We gave a strong contract offer to position our employees among the market leaders in pay and benefits in the Pacific Northwest. We’re disappointed our engineers and technical workforce voted no on our offer.”
Boeing says it has a contingency plan should SPEEA workers walk out. The earliest that could happen is October 7
th
, after the current contract expires.
The SPEEA negotiating team remains hopeful. “We are willing and ready to come back to the table at any time to resolve this,” Nowlin said.
As of Saturday evening, Boeing had not scheduled further talks with SPEEA.
The last Boeing strike in western Washington was in 2024. Machinist union members walked out for 53 days, shutting down production.
©2026 Cox Media Group
0 

Most Read