Classification: current status for Airbus Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
Classification: current status for Airbus Commercial
05/07/2023
 
What is behind the new classification?
The introduction of the new classification scale from January 2024 is a direct result of the new agreement in the Metallurgy sector signed by FO, CFE-CGC and CFDT on 7 February 2022. As a result, all companies in the sector must apply the new grid.
Job grading at Airbus was negotiated by the unions: TRUE or FALSE?
FALSE.
Unlike the other RELOAD themes (working time, holidays, etc.), there was no negotiation at Airbus leading to the signing of an agreement to determine the classification of each job.
The Airbus job catalogue was first drawn up by a panel of company managers, with the support of HR. Secondly, first-level managers had to associate each position in their team with a job catalogue sheet.
The unions were not involved in these stages.
We did, however, negotiate the SMH for each job category ( 
SMH: Minimum Hierarchical Salary
https://lesyndicat.info/info-reload-classification-future-minimum-wages-smh/
) and the associated rules for setting the minimum, as follows:
during the transition phase: gradual increase in monthly salary to the level of the monthly SMH for the job class allocated, by 1 July 2024 at the latest
from July 2024, in the event of a move to a higher-grade job, the monthly salary will be brought up to the level of the monthly SMH as soon as the job is taken up.
What conclusions can we draw today?
It appears that in some cases the spirit of the new classification was not always respected.
Indeed, while the new system should focus on evaluating positions rather than employees, it appears that the current salary/grading or the potential of the person may sometimes have been a factor in the decision.
On the other hand, FO is also pleased to note that, as planned, the roll-out of the classification system will lead to a large number of promotions, including 1,555 at Airbus Operations SAS and 322 at Airbus SAS: 1,020 from Non-Cadre Non forfaité to Non-Cadre Forfaité, 642 from Non Cadre to Cadre, and 215 from Cadre to Cadre supérieur.
Following your numerous requests, FO listened to you and represented you by intervening relentlessly with managers and HR to correct certain inconsistencies, both collectively and individually.
At Airbus Commercial Aircraft, 532 job descriptions have been revised upwards. However, there are still a significant number of cases, both collective and individual, which we are continuing to pursue but which have not yet been resolved.
Where do we go from here?
The classification assigned to a position can still be reviewed following collective or individual feedback.
Management has also responded favourably to our demands, by announcing the creation of a « Joint Monitoring Committee » within Airbus Commercial, to deal with collective feedback as closely as possible to the ground.
This local joint monitoring committee will meet in July, September and October if necessary.
And after January 2024?
The job class assigned to a position will be effective as of January 1, 2024 and may still change, if necessary, particularly if the content of the position is significantly modified (reorganisation or other).
For FO, the new job classification system should remain dynamic and certainly not static! Thus, following the effective implementation of this new reference system from 2024, feedback can be provided.
FO will be a driving force to ensure that the necessary adaptations and adjustments continue to be made as and when they are identified.
Airbus employees can count on FO to support them through this major change.
This is a new starting point, not a finishing line!